# Diagnostic mode

[solution_name]'s diagnostic mode produces a diagnostiz zip containing files needed for troubleshooting. 
Diagnostic mode automatically enables debug logging (where possible), saves all output (logs, BDIO, and inspector files) to a zip file, and notifies you of the location of the zip.
If you contact Synopsys Technical Support for help troubleshooting an issue, you will need to provide this file.

Diagnostic mode properties are:

* -de --diagnosticExtended [--detect.diagnostic.extended](../properties/configuration/debug.md#diagnostic-mode-extended): When enabled, [solution_name] generates a zip file for troubleshooting (a "diagnostic zip") that includes all files most likely to be needed for troubleshooting, including log files, BDIO files, extraction files, reports, and [solution_name] input files such as lock files.
* -d --diagnostic [--detect.diagnostic](../properties/configuration/debug.md#diagnostic-mode): When enabled, [solution_name] generates a diagnostic zip that only includes files generated by [solution_name].

The zip file is created inside the [solution_name] output directory, and should be provided to Synopsys Technical Support when filing a case.

Synopsys does not recommend keeping diagnostic mode on, as it disables parts of cleanup such as deleting the generated diagnostic zip file(s); regardless of the [solution_name] cleanup flag.
While diagnostic can be enabled through properties for consistency, it is generally preferable to use the command line flags to prevent accidentally keeping diagnostic mode on.
If diagnostic mode is accidentally enabled globally (such as using environment variables) the accumulation of diagnostic zips will likely eventually require user intervention as the zips will accumulate.

Diagnostic mode actions:

* Sets the output log level to DEBUG.
* Zips the entire run directory of [solution_name] which includes:
* All BDIO files created by [solution_name].
* Any intermediary files generated by [solution_name], such as Gradle inspector output files.
* Includes any additional reports [solution_name] might make such as dependency counts.
* Additionally extended diagnostics (-de or --detect.diagnostic.extended) may include additional relevant files such as:
    - Npm package locks.
    - vendor.config.
    - C/C++ compilation database.

After running a scan with diagnostic mode, results similar to the following display in your output.

```
2019-03-29 09:32:02 INFO  [main] --- Creating diagnostics zip.
2019-03-29 09:32:02 INFO  [main] --- Diagnostics zip location: C:\detect\blackduck\runs\detect-run-2019-03-29-13-31-50-492.zip
2019-03-29 09:32:03 INFO  [main] --- Diagnostics file created at: C:detect\blackduck\runs\detect-run-2019-03-29-13-31-50-492.zip
2019-03-29 09:32:03 INFO  [main] --- Diagnostic mode has completed.
```
