END USER SOFTWARE LICENSE AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT VERSION 2019.2 (AMERICAS AFRICA ISRAEL)

IMPORTANT INFORMATION - READ CAREFULLY

UNLESS YOU (THE “CUSTOMER”) HAVE OBTAINED PERMISSION TO USE THE LICENSED
PRODUCT UNDER A SEPARATE, DULY SIGNED LICENSE AGREEMENT OR AN EVALUATION
LICENSE WITH SYNOPSYS OR AN AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR, THE ACCOMPANYING
LICENSED PRODUCT IS PROVIDED UNDER THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
AND ANY SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS REFERENCED BELOW AND YOUR RIGHT TO USE THE
LICENSED PRODUCT IS CONDITIONED UPON YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT
(THE “EULM”).
DEPENDING ON WHICH COUNTRY YOU TRANSACT BUSINESS WITH SYNOPSYS FROM,
OTHER VERSIONS OF THIS EULM MAY BE APPLICABLE. FOR PRODUCTS USED OR
SERVICES PROVIDED IN A COUNTRY IN THE AMERICAS, ISRAEL OR AFRICA OR FOR
UNITED STATES DOLLAR TRANSACTIONS IN RUSSIA, THE MOST CURRENT VERSION
IDENTIFIED FOR “AMERICAS AFRICA ISRAEL” SHALL APPLY. FOR PRODUCTS USED
OR SERVICES PROVIDED IN TAIWAN, THE MOST CURRENT VERSION IDENTIFIED FOR
“TAIWAN” SHALL APPLY. FOR PRODUCTS USED OR SERVICES PROVIDED IN JAPAN,
THE MOST CURRENT VERSION IDENTIFIED FOR “JAPAN” SHALL APPLY. FOR
PRODUCTS USED OR SERVICES PROVIDED IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA, THE MOST
CURRENT VERSION IDENTIFIED FOR “KOREA” SHALL APPLY. FOR PRODUCTS USED OR
SERVICES PROVIDED IN CHINA IN RENMINBI, THE MOST CURRENT VERSION
IDENTIFIED AS “CHINA” SHALL APPLY. FOR PRODUCTS USED OR SERVICES
PROVIDED IN ANY COUNTRY OTHER THAN THOSE IDENTIFIED ABOVE, THE MOST
CURRENT VERSION IDENTIFIED FOR “GLOBAL SIL” SHALL APPLY. PLEASE REFER TO
SECTION 8.14 BELOW FOR MORE INFORMATION.
IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND YOU DO NOT HAVE A
SEPARATE LICENSE AGREEMENT AS REFERENCED ABOVE, YOU MAY NOT USE OR COPY
THE LICENSED PRODUCT AND YOU MUST DELETE ANY COPIES OF IT FROM YOUR
SYSTEMS.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1. SCOPE AND KEY TERMS. The Licensed Product is the proprietary
information of Synopsys or its suppliers who retain exclusive title to
their intellectual property rights in the Licensed Product. Customer’s
rights to the Licensed Product are limited to those expressly granted
below and Synopsys reserves all rights not expressly granted in this
Agreement.

1.1 Purchasing Agreements. The terms and conditions set forth in this
End User Software License and Maintenance Agreement and the Purchasing
Agreement(s) accepted by both Customer and Synopsys contain all terms
and conditions applicable to Customer’s use of the Licensed Product
(collectively, the “Agreement”). A “Purchasing Agreement” is a document
that references this Agreement and identifies the specific Licensed
Product and rights being licensed hereunder, including the applicable
License Type, quantity, license term, Territory, Code Base, Team Name or
other license constraint, and the fees and payment terms for the
Licensed Product licenses (the “License Transaction”). An Affiliate of
Customer may purchase licenses to the Licensed Product by executing a
Purchasing Agreement referencing this Agreement provided that this
Agreement governs all such licenses and such Affiliate complies with all
Customer obligations referenced in this Agreement and the Purchasing
Agreement. Customer agrees that it shall be responsible for the acts and
omissions of its Affiliates with respect to any Licensed Product
licensed under an applicable Purchasing Agreement. Customer must refer
to a copy of the applicable Purchasing Agreement to determine these
conditions of the Agreement. If Customer does not receive any other
document executed by Synopsys referencing the License Transaction, a
Synopsys invoice referencing this Agreement, issued in response to a
correct Customer purchase order, shall be Synopsys’ acceptance of the
License Transaction. Additionally, the license term and/or maintenance
and support term for the specific Licensed Product identified in a
Purchasing Agreement may be renewed by issuance of a Synopsys invoice
referencing this Agreement and the applicable Purchasing Agreement in
response to a correct Customer purchase order for such renewal. Customer
agrees that Customer purchases under this Agreement and any Purchasing
Agreement incorporated herein by reference are neither contingent on the
delivery of any future functionality or features nor dependent on any
oral or written public comments made by Synopsys regarding future
functionality or features.

1.2 “Affiliate” of a party to this Agreement means another person or
entity that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is
under common control with such party. For the purposes of this
definition, "control" means owning a beneficial interest (either
directly or indirectly) in more than 50% of the outstanding shares or
securities or other ownership interest entitled to vote for the election
of directors or similar managing authority. An entity shall be deemed to
be an Affiliate under this Agreement for only so long as such requisite
conditions are maintained.

1.3 “Authorized User” means a party’s, and its whollyowned subsidiaries’
or Affiliate’s employees or authorized contractors: (a) whose duties
require access to or use of the Licensed Product or Confidential
Information for the benefit of that party; and (b) whose legal
obligations to protect confidential and proprietary information require
protection of the Licensed Product and Confidential Information to at
least the same extent as set out in this Agreement. For clarity,
Customer shall not appoint any third party as an Authorized User that
licensed all or any portions of the Code Base identified in an
applicable Purchasing Agreement to Customer.

1.4 “Code Base” means those portions of Customer’s software identified
in an applicable Purchasing Agreement by reference to the name of the
product, project or package and a number of lines of code, if
applicable.

1.5 “Documentation” means the user documentation, in written, electronic
or other format, which describes the Licensed Product and its operation
and which Synopsys makes generally available to its licensed customers
for use with the Licensed Product.

1.6 “License Type” means the usage rights purchased under the applicable
Purchasing Agreement. License Types offered by Synopsys from time to
time can be found at:
https://www.synopsys.com/company/legal/softwareintegrity/license-types-v2015-2.html. 
For clarification, where the License Type listed is “5
User Pack” in a Purchasing Agreement, the License Type is a Team
License; all Team Licenses are sold in 5 User Packs and the Quantity
specified above denotes the total number of 5 User Packs.

1.7 “Licensed Product” means the specific products provided by Synopsys
and listed in a Purchasing Agreement and (a) all related Documentation,
and (b) all updates (including Licensed Product Updates), modifications
and maintenance services provided to Customer. An overview of the
product packages included in the Licensed Product identified in the
applicable Purchase Agreement are posted at:
https://www.synopsys.com/company/legal/softwareintegrity/product-package-overview.html.

1.8 “Licensed Product Updates” means features and functionalities of
Licensed Products which may be updated from time to time, including but
not limited to updated protocols for Defensics; updated checkers for
Coverity; updated definitions of, and metadata from open source and
vulnerabilities related to Open Source Software for applicable Black
Duck labeled products; and updated vulnerability definitions for Seeker.

1.9 “Plug-In” means additional functionality or features available to an
end user through a standalone component used in conjunction with a
Licensed Product subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement.

1.10 “Team Name” means the named development team that is licensed to
use and operate the Licensed Product pursuant to a Team License granted
in an applicable Purchasing Agreement.

1.11 “Territory” means the specific country(ies) or geographical areas
identified in the applicable Purchasing Agreement to which the
Customer’s usage of the Licensed Product is limited. 

For Black Duck labeled products only:

1.12 “Application” means the software code associated with a single
software build, including multiple versions thereof.

1.13 “Code Contributor” means the individuals within or contracted by
the Customer’s organization who contribute or work with code for an
Application that will be scanned or analyzed by the Licensed Product.
The number of Code Contributors includes all developers, engineers,
analysts, architects, testers and managers who have written, modified or
reviewed code for any scanned or analyzed Application during the License
Term, as well as any individuals who interact with the Licensed Product
via UI, email/text alerts, API, or third-party integration. Code
Contributors do not include, however, those individuals within the
Customer’s organization who perform only software related documentation
or project management tasks.

1.14 “Hosting Services” shall have the meaning set forth in the Hosting
Services Addendum.

1.15 “Hosted Software” shall have the meaning set forth in the Hosting
Services Addendum.

2. LICENSE.

2.1 License Grant and Applicable Fees and Delivery. Subject to
Customer’s compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
Synopsys grants Customer a nonexclusive, non-transferable license,
solely during the license term and in the Territory set out in the
applicable Purchasing Agreement, to (a) use and operate the Licensed
Product to the extent permitted by Customer’s payment of applicable fees
for the License Type purchased, solely for the purpose of developing,
analyzing, building or testing the Code Base, Team Name, or other
license constraint identified in such Purchasing Agreement, and (b) copy
the Licensed Product as reasonably necessary to exercise the license
rights granted in subsection (a), including making a reasonable number
of copies for backup and archival purposes. All applicable fees are owed
upon the effective date of the applicable Purchasing Agreement, are
non-refundable upon such date, and are payable in accordance with the
payment schedule set out in the applicable Purchasing Agreement. All
past due amounts will incur interest at a rate of 1.5% per month or the
maximum rate permitted by law, whichever is less. If Customer does not
pay an amount by the scheduled due date, Synopsys will have the right to
withhold the delivery of the license keys and / or terminate the
applicable Purchase Agreement and accelerate the due date of all
remaining payments. In the foregoing event, Customer will owe the entire
outstanding balance as soon as Customer receives written notice from
Synopsys that payment is overdue. Fees payable are net amounts, without
deduction for taxes or duties. Customer will pay taxes and duties
(including but not limited to sales, use and withholding taxes)
associated with its purchases under this Purchasing Agreement, except
for Synopsys’ net income taxes; taxes and duties are based on where the
Licensed Product is electronically delivered and where Services are
delivered. Applicable sales tax will be included on invoices for
Licensed Products and / or Services. Invoices for Licensed Products and
/ or Services are issued upon Customer execution of the applicable
Purchasing Agreement. Where practical, Synopsys will deliver the
Licensed Product electronically and delivery will be deemed to occur
upon the Licensed Product being available for electronic download.
Delivery of any tangible media will be made F.O.B. point of shipment.

2.2 Conditions. The rights granted to Customer above are conditional
upon Customer’s compliance with the following obligations:

a. Customer will not copy Synopsys’ Licensed Products or Documentation,
in whole or in part, except as expressly authorized in this Agreement.

b. Customer will not transfer, assign, lease, lend or rent Synopsys’
Licensed Products or Documentation, use them to provide service bureau,
time-sharing or other services, or otherwise provide or make the
functionality thereof available to third parties except as expressly
authorized in this Agreement.

c. Customer will not disassemble, decompile, reverse engineer, modify or
create derivative works of Synopsys’ Licensed Products or Documentation
nor permit any third party to do so, except to the extent such
restrictions are prohibited by applicable mandatory local law.

d. Customer will not allow access or use of the Licensed Product by, and
will not display the Licensed Product’s user interfaces to anyone other
than the Authorized Users without Synopsys’s prior express written
consent.

e. Customer will not disclose to any third party any comparison of the
results of operation of Synopsys’ Licensed Products with other products.

f. Customer will not delete or in any manner alter the copyright,
trademark or other proprietary rights notices appearing on the Licensed
Product as delivered by Synopsys. Customer will reproduce such notices
on all copies Customer is authorized to make of the Licensed Product.

g. Customer’s use of the Licensed Product is timelimited to the licensed
term set out in the applicable Purchasing Agreement, and such use and
access may be monitored and regulated through a license management tool
(the “License Manager”) and a Licensed Product Updatestool. The License
Manager will report such data (collectively, “Use and Compliance Data”)
to Synopsys. Customer will not install or use the Licensed Product in a
manner that circumvents or interferes with the operation of the License
Manager, the Licensed Product Updates tool or any other technological
measure that controls access to the Licensed Product. Some
configurations may require the License Manager or the Licensed Product
Updates tool to be installed only on designated servers. For those
configurations, Synopsys will support two changes to the designated
servers during any twelve-month period upon prior written notice.

2.3. Offsite Contractors. Customer may allow Authorized Users that are
offsite contractors to access and use the Licensed Product solely for
Customer’s benefit in accordance with this Agreement provided that: (a)
Customer is responsible for the acts and omissions of its offsite
contractors with respect to any Licensed Product licensed under this
Agreement; (b) Customer ensures that the Licensed Product is completely
and irretrievably uninstalled from any offsite contractor’s equipment
and premises (except for those modules necessary to view results and
other data generated from using the Licensed Product) immediately upon
completion of the offsite contractor’s services requiring use of the
Licensed Product; and (c) Customer has a written agreement in place with
the offsite contractor requiring that the offsite contractor protect
Synopsys’ Licensed Product, Confidential Information and intellectual
property at least to the same extent as set forth in this Agreement.
Customer acknowledges that Synopsys has no warranty or other obligations
to Customer’s offsite contractors.

2.4. Licensed Product Updates. Customers with licenses to Licensed
Products are granted the right to use, as part of the Licensed Products,
such Licensed Product Updates as and when they are made generally
available to Synopsys’ end user customers who have purchased such
maintenance/support offering and for such period of time as indicated in
the applicable Purchasing Agreement. This Agreement does not otherwise
permit Customer to obtain and use Licensed Product Updates.

2.5. Special Terms for Third Party Software. The Licensed Product may
contain open source or community source software (“Open Source
Software”) provided under separate license terms (the “Open Source
License Terms”). The applicable Open Source License Terms are identified
in a directory named “Licenses” provided with the delivery of the
Licensed Product. Customer’s use of the Open Source Software in
conjunction with the Licensed Product in a manner consistent with the
terms of this Agreement is permitted, however, Customer may have broader
rights under the applicable Open Source License Terms and nothing in
this Agreement is intended to impose further restrictions on Customer’s
use of the Open Source Software. Open Source Software is provided
“AS-IS”, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, AND SYNOPSYS FURTHER
DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH
RESPECT TO OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NONINFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NEITHER SYNOPSYS NOR THE LICENSORS OF OPEN SOURCE
SOFTWARE SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE OPEN
SOURCE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Copyrights to Open Source Software are held by the copyright holders
indicated in the copyright notices in the corresponding source files.

2.6. Feedback and Analytics. Customer may choose to, but is not required
to, provide suggestions, data, feedback and other information to
Synopsys, its subcontractors or authorized distributors regarding
possible improvements in the operation, functionality or use of
Synopsys’ Licensed Products (“Feedback”). Customer hereby grants to
Synopsys, its subcontractors and authorized distributors, a
nonexclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free and fully paid up
license to use, copy, display, modify, create derivative works of and
distribute any Feedback, and to make, have made, use, lease, sell, offer
for sale, import, export or otherwise transfer any Synopsys product
offering covered by any intellectual property rights in such Feedback
solely for the purpose of (i) improving the operation, functionality or
use of its existing and future product offerings and commercializing
such offerings; and (ii) publishing aggregated statistics about software
quality, provided that no data in any such publication can be used to
specifically identify Customer or Customer's software code.

2.7. Keys and Access. Synopsys agrees to provide Customer those
authorization keys and/or passwords, which are necessary to permit
Customer to gain access to the Licensed Product made available to
Customer for the Licensed Product which has been properly licensed to
Customer in accordance with this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this Agreement, Customer hereby acknowledges that
Customer shall have no right or license to any software made available
to Customer which has not been properly licensed to Customer pursuant to
this Agreement or the applicable Purchasing Agreement, or that has been
included therein solely as a matter of convenience, and that Customer
agrees not to attempt to gain access to, or permit any third party to
attempt to gain access to, such software.

2.8. Plug-Ins. For Customers with valid licenses to the Licensed
Products, including Seeker, Customer is hereby granted the right to use,
in conjunction with the Licensed Products licensed to Customer, Plug-Ins
made available for use with the Licensed Products by Synopsys from time
to time. No additional Purchasing Agreements are required in connection
with the use of such Plug-Ins. Customer’s right to use such Plug-Ins are
provided under the terms of this Agreement, including the license grant
set forth in Section 2.1 of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a Plug-In is not “Software” for purposes of this Agreement.
ALL PLUGINS ARE PROVIDED AS-IS”, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.
SYNOPSYS AND ITS PARTNERS, SUPPLIERS AND DISTRIBUTORS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PLUG-IN,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NONINFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. SYNOPSYS AND ITS
PARTNERS, SUPPLIERS AND DISTRIBUTORS DISCLAIM ALL LIABILITY UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT TO ANY PLUG-IN. The indemnification provisions of
Section 5 of this Agreement shall not apply to Plug-Ins.

3. CONFIDENTIALITY.

3.1. Confidential Information. “Confidential Information” means: (a)
each party’s software products, in byte code or source code form; (b)
any authorization keys and passwords delivered in order to operate such
products; (c) Documentation, product road maps and development plans,
and product pricing information; (d) any business, technical or training
information of a party that, if disclosed in writing, is marked
“confidential” or “proprietary” at the time of disclosure, or, if
disclosed orally, is identified as “confidential” or “proprietary” at
the time of disclosure, and is summarized in a writing sent by the
disclosing party to the other party within thirty (30) days of such
disclosure or, without a marking requirement where the receiving party
knows or reasonably should understand the disclosure to be confidential
or trade secret information; and (e) Customer specific terms and pricing
set forth in any quotation, Purchasing Agreement or this Agreement.

3.2. Exclusions. Confidential Information does not include information
that: (a) is or becomes generally known or available to the public
through no act or omission of the party receiving Confidential
Information (“Receiving Party”); (b) is rightfully known by the
Receiving Party prior to receiving such information from the other party
(“Disclosing Party”) and without restriction as to use or disclosure;
(c) is independently developed by the Receiving Party without use of the
Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information and without breach of this
Agreement; or (d) is rightfully received by the Receiving Party from a
third party without restriction on use or disclosure. The existence of
this Agreement and the nature of the business relationship between the
parties are not considered Confidential Information.

3.3. Use and Disclosure Restrictions. Receiving Party will not use the
Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information except as necessary to
exercise the rights granted under this Agreement or to evaluate
opportunities to license additional Licensed Products pursuant to this
Agreement, and will not disclose such Confidential Information to any
person or entity except to its Authorized Users. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, Customer agrees that it will not post the
Licensed Product, the Documentation, or any screenshots of the Licensed
Product or results generated by the Licensed Product, on any network
that is accessible by anyone other than the Authorized Users. The
foregoing obligations will not restrict either party from disclosing
Confidential Information of the other party: (a) pursuant to the order
or requirement of a court, administrative agency, or other governmental
body, provided that the party required to make such a disclosure gives
reasonable notice to the other party to contest such order or
requirement; and (b) on a confidential basis to its legal or financial
advisors that need to know in order to provide business advice to such
party. In addition, each party may disclose the terms and conditions of
this Agreement:

(i) as required under applicable securities regulations; and

(ii) on a confidential basis to present or future providers of venture
capital and potential private investors in or acquirers of such party.

3.4. Right of Equitable Relief. The parties acknowledge that violations
of the covenants and obligations of this Agreement may cause the
non-breaching party irreparable injury for which an adequate remedy at
law may not be available. Therefore, the non-breaching party shall be
entitled to seek all remedies that may be available under equity,
including immediate injunctive relief, in addition to whatever remedies
may be available at law.

4. WARRANTY.

4.1. Limited Licensed Product Warranty. Subject to the remainder of this
Section 4, for a period of forty five (45) days from earlier of the date
that the Licensed Product is first made available to Customer for
download or Customer’sfirst receipt of the Licensed Product pursuant to
an Purchasing Agreement, Synopsys represents and warrants that, (a) the
media on which the Licensed Product is delivered will be free of defects
in material and workmanship, (b) the Licensed Product will substantially
conform to the functional specifications set forth in the applicable
Documentation, and (c) it has used commercially available
virus-detection software to scan the Licensed Product, and it has not
knowingly introduced into the Licensed Product any virus, Trojan horse,
trap door, or other code that is intended to cause harm to the Code Base
or other systems.

4.2. Sole Remedy. If, during the warranty period set forth in Section
4.1, Synopsys receives written notice from Customer of non-conformity of
the Licensed Product with the warranty set forth in Section 4.1,
Synopsys will, as Customer’s sole and exclusive remedy and Synopsys’
entire liability for such nonconformity: (a) deliver a correction or
workaround for the non-conformity; or (b) if Synopsys is unable to
deliver such a correction or workaround, provide written notice to
Customer and, upon Customer’s return or confirmed destruction of all
copies of the non-conforming Licensed Product to Synopsys, refund the
license fees paid by Customer for such nonconforming Licensed Product.
THE FOREGOING STATES CUSTOMER’S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR WARRANTY
CLAIMS RELATED TO THE LICENSED PRODUCT.

4.3. Disclaimer. Synopsys does not warrant that the Licensed Product
will meet Customer’s requirements, that the Licensed Product will
operate in combinations with equipment, devices, software or systems
provided by persons other than Synopsys, that the operation of the
Licensed Product will be error-free or uninterrupted, or that the
Licensed Product will discover all open source or third-party code,
potential license conflicts, errors and vulnerabilities that may reside
in the Code Base. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT,
SYNOPSYS AND ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS AND
REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING THOSE RELATED
TO MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SATISFACTORY
QUALITY, ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF RESULTS, CONFORMANCE WITH
DESCRIPTION, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. SYNOPSYS AND ITS SUPPLIERS
SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS AND
REPRESENTATIONS ARISING OUT OF COURSE OF DEALING, USAGE OR TRADE.

5. INDEMNIFICATION.

5.1. Infringement Indemnity. Synopsys will defend or settle any action
brought against Customer by paying all costs, damages and reasonable
attorneys’ fees that are finally awarded against Customer to the extent
those amounts are based upon a third party claim that the Licensed
Product, as provided by Synopsys to Customer under this Agreement and
used in accordance with this Agreement, directly infringes any U.S.
patent, or copyright or misappropriates any U.S. trade secret. However,
Synopsys’ obligations under this Section 5 are subject to the following
conditions:

(a) Customer must promptly notify Synopsys in writing of the action;

(b) Customer grants Synopsys sole control of the defense and settlement
of the action; and

(c) Customer must provide Synopsys, at Synopsys’ expense, with all
assistance, information and authority reasonably requested for the
defense and settlement of the action.

Synopsys will not be responsible for any compromise made or expense
incurred without its consent. If use of any of the Licensed Product is,
or in Synopsys’ reasonable opinion is likely to be, the subject of an
action specified in this Section 5.1, Synopsys may, at its sole option
and at no additional charge: 

(i) procure for Customer the right to continue using such Licensed
Product;

(ii) replace or modify such Licensed Product so that it is noninfringing
and substantially equivalent in function to the original Licensed
Product; or

(iii) if options (i) and (ii) above are not accomplished despite
Synopsys’ reasonable efforts, terminate Customer’s rights and Synopsys’
obligations hereunder with respect to such Licensed Product and refund
the unamortized portion of the license fees paid for such Licensed
Product, based upon a straight-line depreciation over the term of the
license commencing as of the date Customer received such Licensed
Product.

5.2. Exclusions. Notwithstanding the terms of Section 5.1, Synopsys will
have no liability for any infringement or misappropriation action or
claim of any kind to the extent that it results from: 

(a) modifications to the Licensed Product made by a party other than
Synopsys, if the infringement or misappropriation would not have
occurred but for such modifications;

(b) the combination, operation or use of the Licensed Product with
equipment, devices, software, systems or data not supplied by Synopsys,
if the infringement or misappropriation would not have occurred but for
such combination, operation or use;

(c) Customer’s failure to use the updated or modified Licensed Product
provided by Synopsys to avoid infringement or misappropriation;

(d) Synopsys’ compliance with any designs or specifications provided by
Customer; and/or (e) Customer’s use of the Licensed Product other than
as authorized by this Agreement.

5.3. Sole Remedy. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 5 SET FORTH SYNOPSYS’
SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE OBLIGATIONS, AND CUSTOMER’S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE
REMEDIES, WITH RESPECT TO INFRINGEMENT OR MISAPPROPRIATION OF
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF ANY KIND. EXCEPT AS SET FORTH ABOVE,
SYNOPSYS AND ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL IMPLIED OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT
TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INDEMNIFICATION.

6. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

6.1. Exclusion of Damages. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
this Agreement does not limit liability due to death or personal injury
caused by gross negligence, or liability due to fraudulent
misrepresentations or willful misconduct, or liability arising from
breaches of confidentiality obligations or license grants or conditions
hereunder. SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING SENTENCE, IN NO EVENT WILL EITHER
PARTY, OR ITS SUPPLIERS, BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOSS
OF USE, DATA, BUSINESS OR PROFITS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, ANTICIPATED
SAVINGS) OR FOR THE COST OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED UPON CONTRACT, WARRANTY,
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), FAILURE OF A REMEDY TO ACCOMPLISH ITS
PURPOSE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, AND EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. Customer acknowledges that Synopsys would
not be able to provide the Licensed Product without the limitations set
forth in this Section 6. Customer may have other rights under applicable
mandatory local laws. This Agreement does not change Customer’s rights
under applicable mandatory local laws if such laws do not permit it to
do so.

6.2. Cap on Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL SYNOPSYS, ITS AFFILIATES OR ITS
SUBSIDIAIRIES, OR ITS SUPPLIERS’ AGGREGATE LIABILITY UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT, OR RELATING TO ITS SUBJECT MATTER, EXCEED WITH RESPECT TO ANY
LICENSED PRODUCT, THE AMOUNT PAID BY CUSTOMER FOR THE LICENSED PRODUCT
GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM, AND WITH RESPECT TO SERVICES, THE AMOUNT PAID
BY CUSTOMER FOR THE SERVICES GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM.

7. EXPIRATION AND TERMINATION.

7.1. Term of Agreement. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the
Effective Date of this Agreement and will end when this Agreement is
terminated by either party in accordance with this Section 7.

7.2. Term of Purchasing Agreement. Each Purchasing Agreement will have
its own term, as indicated by the License Term applicable to the
Licensed Product licensed under such Purchasing Agreement.

7.3. Termination for Breach. Either party will have the right to
terminate this Agreement or any Purchasing Agreement if the other party
breaches any material term of the Agreement or Purchasing Agreement, as
the case may be, and if such breach is capable of cure, the breaching
party fails to cure such breach within thirty (30) days after receiving
written notice thereof. Either party will have the right to terminate
this Agreement if the other becomes insolvent or makes an assignment for
the benefit of creditors, or a trustee or receiver is appointed for such
other party or for a substantial part of its assets, or bankruptcy,
reorganization or insolvency proceedings shall be instituted by or
against such other party. Termination of this Agreement under this
Section 7 terminates all Purchasing Agreements and Licensed Product
licenses granted hereunder.

7.4. Effect of Termination or Expiration. Upon termination or expiration
of this Agreement or a Purchasing Agreement, all Licensed Product
licenses and rights to use Confidential Information that are granted
thereunder shall terminate. Upon termination of this Agreement or
expiration of the license term in any Purchasing Agreement, Customer
will: (a) promptly return to Synopsys or destroy the applicable Licensed
Product and Confidential Information and all copies and portions
thereof, in all forms and types of media; and (b) promptly pay all fees
owing up to the date of termination.

7.5. Survival. Sections 1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, 3, 4.3, 5.3, 6, 7.2, 7.3 and 8
of the Agreement, Section 6 of the SDK Addendum, and the Special Terms
Addendum and the Hosting Services Addendum, will survive the termination
or expiration of this Agreement or of any Purchasing Agreement.

8. GENERAL.

8.1. Promotion. Unless otherwise provided in the Purchasing Agreement,
Customer agrees that Synopsys may use Customer’s name and logo (in a
form approved by Customer) to identify Customer as a customer on
Synopsys’ website or in marketing or publicity materials or in any
filings made in connection with state or federal securities laws.
Additionally, upon execution of this Agreement, the parties will use
commercially reasonable efforts to issue mutually agreed upon joint
press releases or other public communications announcing Customer’s
entry into this Agreement.

8.2. “Maintenance Services” means any standard Synopsys maintenance and
support services (excluding onsite support or consulting services
referenced in Section 8.3 below) related to the Licensed Product
licensed hereunder pursuant to a Purchasing Agreement, where such
services shall be governed by the applicable Synopsys Maintenance
Services terms attached to this Agreement. Except as indicated on an
applicable Purchasing Agreement, fees for Licensed Products include
Synopsys Standard Maintenance Services for the duration of the license
term applicable to such Licensed Products. In the event that the
Synopsys Maintenance Services Terms are not included herein (as an
addendum hereto or otherwise), the terms for Synopsys Maintenance
Services are hereby incorporated herein by references, and are available
at: 

for (a) Black Duck labeled products at
https://www.blackducksoftware.com/support/support-plans

and (b) for all other Licensed Products at:
https://www.synopsys.com/company/legal/softwareintegrity/maintenance-
service-terms-v2015-1.html, or as otherwise indicated in the Purchasing
Agreement.

8.3. Onsite Support Services; Customer Success; Training; Hosting
Services. If Synopsys provides any Services (as defined in the attached
Onsite Support Services Terms Addendum, and excluding Maintenance
Services referenced in Section 8.2 above) to Customer, the Services
shall be governed by the attached Synopsys Onsite Support Services
Terms. In the event that the Synopsys Onsite Support Services Terms are
not attached to this Agreement (as an addendum or otherwise), the terms
for Onsite Support Services, are hereby incorporated herein by
reference, and are available at:
https://www.synopsys.com/company/legal/softwareintegrity/onsite-support-
services-terms-v2015- 1.htmlindex.html,or as otherwise indicated in the
Purchasing Agreement. Synopsys shall not be obligated to perform any
On-Site Support Services, excluding Training, until the parties enter
into a written Statement of Work describing the scope of such Services
to be performed and such Statement of Work shall be governed by the
terms of this Agreement and the applicable Purchasing Agreement. Where
described in the applicable Purchasing Agreement or the Statement of
Work, as applicable, actual travel and related expenses will be charged
to Customer as incurred, provided that such expenses shall be capped at
$3,000 per each five (5) consecutive consulting days. For clarity,
payment for Onsite Support Services or Maintenance Services does not
entitle Customer to Customer Success program services or training
services. Onsite Support Services, Customer Success program services or
training services that remain unused at the end of the license term
referenced in the applicable Purchasing Agreement will be forfeited and
Customer will not be entitled to any refund for unused portions. If
Synopsys provides any Hosting Services (as defined in the attached
Hosting Services Addendum) to Customer, the Hosting Services will be
governed by the attached Hosting Services Addendum.

8.4. Software Development Kit. For some Licensed Products, Synopsys
provides a software development kit (“SDK”) to Customer with the
Licensed Product. Use of the SDK shall be governed by the Synopsys SDK
terms included in the addendum attached to this Agreement. In the event
that the Synopsys SDK terms are not included herein (as an addendum
hereto or otherwise), the SDK terms are available at:
https://www.synopsys.com/company/legal/softwareintegrity/software-
development-kit.html.

8.5. Export Control. Customer agrees that the Licensed Product, Services
and Technical Support subject to this Agreement are subject to the
export control laws and regulations of the United States, including but
not limited to the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), and
sanctions regulations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of
Foreign Assets Control and that Customer will comply with these laws and
regulations. Without limiting the foregoing, if any of the Licensed
Products, Services and Technical Support governed by this Agreement, or
the direct product of any such Licensed Product, Services and Technical
Support (each, a “Controlled Product”), is subject to the national
security controls as identified on the Commerce Control List (the
“Controlled Products”), Customer will not, without a U.S. Bureau of
Industry and Security license or license exception, export, re-export,
or transfer a Controlled Product, either directly or indirectly, to any
national of any country identified in Country Groups D:1 or E:1 as
defined in the EARs. In addition, the Licensed Product, Services and
Technical Support subject to this Agreement may not be exported,
reexported, or transferred to (a) any person or entity listed on the
“Entity List”, “Denied Persons List” or the list of “Specifically
Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons" as such lists are maintained
by the U.S. Government, or (b) an end-user engaged in activities related
to weapons of mass destruction. Such activities include but are not
necessarily limited to activities related to: (i) the design,
development, production, or use of nuclear materials, nuclear
facilities, or nuclear weapons; (ii) the design, development,
production, or use of missiles or support of missiles projects; and
(iii) the design, development, production, or use of chemical or
biological weapons. Customer will, at Synopsys’ request, demonstrate
compliance with all such applicable export laws, restrictions, and
regulations.

8.6. Assignment. Customer may not assign this Agreement, or any licenses
granted hereunder, in whole or in part, by operation of law or
otherwise. Any attempt to so assign without such consent will be void
and of no effect. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will bind and
inure to the benefit of each party’s permitted successors and assigns.

8.7. Governing Law and Jurisdiction. This Agreement will be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California
excluding that body of laws known as conflicts of law. The parties
expressly agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods will not apply. Any legal action or
proceeding arising under this Agreement will be brought exclusively in
the federal or state courts located in the Northern District of
California and the parties irrevocably consent to the personal
jurisdiction and venue therein. Customer agrees that the Uniform
Computer Information Transactions Act or any version thereof, adopted by
any state, in any form ("UCITA"), shall not apply to this Agreement. To
the extent that UCITA is applicable, the parties agree to opt out of the
applicability of UCITA pursuant to the opt-out provision(s) contained
therein.

8.8. Verification and Audit. In addition to the Use and Compliance Data
collected by the License Manager, Customer will monitor and track access
to and use of the Licensed Product. At Synopsys’ written request,
Customer will furnish Synopsys with (a) a certification signed by an
authorized representative of Customer providing user or access
information that identifies whether the Licensed Product is being used
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and (b) log files from
any License Manager that regulates access to the Licensed Product. Upon
at least thirty (30) days prior written notice, Synopsys may engage, at
its expense, an independent auditor to audit Customer’s use of the
Licensed Product to ensure that Customer is in compliance with the terms
of this Agreement and the applicable Purchasing Agreements. Any such
audit will be conducted during regular business hours at Customer’s
facilities and will not unreasonably interfere with Customer’s business
activities. Customer will provide the auditor with access to the
relevant records and facilities. If an audit reveals that Customer has
underpaid fees to Synopsys during the period audited, then Synopsys will
invoice Customer, and Customer will promptly pay Synopsys for such
underpaid fees based on Synopsys’s price list in effect at the time the
audit is completed. If the underpaid fees exceed five percent (5%) of
the license fees paid by Customerfor the Licensed Product, then Customer
will also pay Synopsys’ costs of conducting the audit.

8.9. Nonexclusive Remedy. Except as expressly set forth in this
Agreement, the exercise by either party of any of its remedies under
this Agreement will be without prejudice to its other remedies under
this Agreement or otherwise.

8.10. Force Majeure. Neither party will be responsible for any failure
or delay in its performance under this Agreement (except for any payment
obligations) due to causes beyond its reasonable control, including, but
not limited to, labor disputes, strikes, lockouts, shortages of or
inability to obtain labor, energy, raw materials or supplies, war,
terrorism, riot, natural disasters or governmental action.

8.11. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this Agreement
will be in writing. Notices will be effective upon delivery if delivered
in person and upon mailing if delivered by courier service, overnight
delivery services or by a form of certified or express mail. Notices
affecting this Agreement as a whole will be sent to the address set
forth above, if any, or to such other address of a party as such party
may identify in writing; notices related to a particular transaction
will be sent to the primary corporate addresses set forth in the
Purchasing Agreement or to such other address as Customer or Synopsys
may notify the other party in writing.

8.12. Entire Agreement; Modification; Interpretation. This Agreement,
including any Addenda hereto and any Statements of Work attached
thereto, and all accepted Purchasing Agreements referencing this
Agreement, constitute the complete and exclusive understanding and
agreement between the parties regarding its subject matter and
supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements or understandings,
written or oral, relating to its subject matter. Customer agrees that
additional or different terms on Customer’s purchase order shall not
apply. Failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement will not
constitute a waiver of future enforcement of that or any other
provision. Any waiver, modification or amendment of this Agreement will
be effective only if in writing and signed by Customer and an authorized
representative of Synopsys. If for any reason a court of competent
jurisdiction finds any provision of this Agreement invalid or
unenforceable, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent
permissible and the other provisions of this Agreement will remain in
full force and effect. The word “including” when used in this Agreement
will mean including without limitation of the generality of any
description, definition, term or phrase preceding that word.

8.13. U.S. Government Restricted Rights. All Licensed Products are
“Commercial Computer Software” as defined under FAR 252.227-7014. For
customers subject to the Defense Federal Acquisition Resolutions (DFAR),
the Commercial Computer Software and associated documentation are sold
pursuant to Synopsys' standard commercial license pursuant to DFARS
227.7202- 1.Commercial Products. For all other government customers,
use, duplication, or disclosure by the U.S. Government is subject to
restrictions set forth in subparagraph (b)(2) of Commercial Computer
Software License 48 CFR 52.227-19, as applicable.

8.14. Synopsys Entities. Synopsys, Inc. and its whollyowned
subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, Synopsys International
Limited, Synopsys International Limited Taiwan Branch, Nihon Synopsys,
G.K., Synopsys Korea, Inc. and Synopsys Technologies Company Limited,
have agreed to their respective rights and obligations regarding the
distribution of the Licensed Products and the performance of obligations
related to the Licensed Products. You acknowledge that: (a) Synopsys
Inc. or any directly or indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary or branch of
Synopsys, Inc. may treat a purchase order addressed to that entity,
representative office or branch as having been addressed to the
appropriate entity or entities or branch with distribution rights for
the geographic region in which the Licensed Products will be used; and
(b) delivery will be completed by the Synopsys entity or branch with
distribution rights for the geographic region in which the Licensed
Products will be used or service will be provided. For products used or
services provided in a country in the Americas, Israel or Africa or US
dollar transactions in Russia, the distributing Synopsys entity is
Synopsys, Inc., based in California, USA. For products used or services
provided in Taiwan, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys
International Limited Taiwan Branch, based in Taiwan. For products used
or services provided in Japan, the distributing Synopsys entity is Nihon
Synopsys G. K., based in Japan. For products used or services provided
in the Republic of Korea, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys
Korea, Inc., based in Korea. For products used or services provided in
China in Renminbi, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys
Technologies Company Limited, based in China. For products used or
services provided in any country other than those identified above, the
distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys International Limited, based in
Ireland.

8.15. Counterparts and Execution. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same instrument. An originally
executed version of this Agreement or any Exhibit, attachment and
subsequent Purchasing Agreement (including, where applicable, a Customer
purchase order issued in response to a Purchasing Agreement where such
issuance constitutes execution), that is delivered by one party to the
other party, as evidence of signature, by facsimile, or by electronic
mail after having been scanned as an image file (including, Adobe PDF,
TIF, etc.) shall, for all purposes hereof, be deemed an original
signature and neither party shall have the right to object to the manner
in which the Agreement was executed as a defense to the enforcement of
the Agreement.

8.16. Controlling Language. This Agreement has been prepared, negotiated
and signed in English, and English is the controlling language of this
Agreement. Even if any other language version is prepared, including the
Japanese version of this document, such version is for convenience
purposes only and the English version shall prevail if there is any
difference between such version and English version.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

MAINTENANCE SERVICES TERMS ADDENDUM

1. MAINTENANCE SERVICES. “Maintenance Services” means the standard
Maintenance and Support provided by Synopsys to Customer as further
described below. Subject to Customer’s payment of applicable fees,
Synopsys will provide the following standard Maintenance Services to
Customer for the period agreed by the parties in the order
documentation:

1.1 Maintenance and Support.

(a) Maintenance. “Maintenance” means the provision by Synopsys to
Customer of any Releases or Workarounds that are made generally
available by Synopsys to customers who subscribe for Synopsys’
Maintenance Services offering.

(i) A Release will be one of the following: A “Major Release” means a
specific edition of the Licensed Product that contains major
functionality changes. The content and timing of all Major Releases will
be determined by Synopsys in its sole discretion. Major Releases are
signified by version changes to the left of the decimal point (e.g. 2.0
-> 3.0) following the product name. A “Minor Release” means a specific
edition of the Licensed Product that contains minor, but significant
functionality changes and could include Licensed Product Updates. The
content and timing of all Minor Releases will be determined by Synopsys
in its sole discretion. Minor Releases are signified by version changes
to the right of the decimal point (e.g. 2.5 -> 2.6) following the
product name.

(ii) “Workaround” means a Licensed Product patch, error correction, or
feasible change in operating procedures whereby the Licensed Product is
made sufficiently functional so that Customer can continue to use the
Licensed Product. Synopsys may provide Workarounds for a release to
resolve a Service Issue for up to twelve (12) months after the earlier
of (i) the date the subsequent Release is first made commercially
available, and (ii) the date the current Release is no longer made
available as a commercial offering by Synopsys. After such twelve (12)
month period, Synopsys is not obligated to provide Workarounds but will
support Customer’s update of the Licensed Product to the latest Release.
Where Workarounds are to be delivered to resolve a Service Issue,
Synopsys will provide Customer with a single copy of a Workaround on
suitable media or shall make available the applicable Workaround for
download by Customer from Synopsys’ web site.

(b) Support. “Support” means the e-mail and telephone technical services
that Synopsys offers regarding the use and function of the Licensed
Product. Synopsys will provide Support and respond to Service Issues as
further described below. A “Service Issue” is a Customer inquiry
regarding the functionality or use of the Licensed Product. Customer
agrees that Synopsys’ Support obligations concerning the Licensed
Product’s use with third party products, including compilers, operating
systems and other Licensed Product, shall be limited to those items set
forth in the Documentation. Service Issues are assigned a classification
at the time of Customer’s initial contact with Synopsys, and are
classified according to the severity levels set forth below. Synopsys
will initially respond in accordance with the response times applicable
to Service Issues reported by telephone or e-mail during Synopsys’
regular service hours for the applicable region as set forth below.
Failure to contact Customer within the response time period because
Customer is unavailable (e.g., phone busy, no answer, in a meeting, or
out of the office) does not constitute Synopsys’ noncompliance with the
response commitment. Customer shall cooperate with Synopsys to provide
reproducible results for any errors reported. Synopsys’ ability to
provide Support will depend, in some cases, on the ability of Customer’s
representatives to provide accurate and detailed information and to aid
Synopsys in handling a Service Issue. Customer shall provide Synopsys
with reasonable access to Customer systems, premises and staff as needed
to provide Support. Synopsys will provide Support for each Release for
at least eighteen (18) months after the subsequent Release is first made
commercially available. After such period, Synopsys will provide
Support, as needed, to Customer to update its use of the Licensed
Product to the latest Release of the Licensed Product.

Service Issue Classification      

Response Time               

Next Steps

Severity P1—Critical Business Impact: Licensed Product is not
functioning or is stopped or severely impacted so that Customer cannot
reasonably continue use of Licensed Product and no Workaround is
available.

One business day 

Once the Service Issue is verified, Synopsys will engage development
staff during Synopsys’ business hours (but in no event later than 12
hours after the Service Issue is verified) until a Workaround is
achieved.

Severity P2—Major Business Impact: Licensed Product is functioning
inconsistently causing significantly impaired Customer usage and
productivity, such as periodic work stoppages and feature crashes.

One business day

Once the Service Issue is verified, Synopsys will engage development
staff during Synopsys’ business hours (but in no event later than 24
hours after the Service Issue is verified) until a Workaround is
achieved.

Severity P3—Minor Business Impact: Licensed Product is functioning
inconsistently causing slightly impaired Customer usage and productivity
but Customer can work around such inconsistency or impairment.

Two business days

Once the Service Issue is verified, Synopsys will consider a Workaround,
if appropriate in Synopsys’ sole discretion, and Licensed Product
enhancements for such Service Issue for inclusion in a subsequent
Release.

Severity P4—No Business Impact: Licensed Product is functioning
consistently but Customer requests minor changes in Licensed Product
such as Documentation updates, cosmetic defects or enhancements.

Three business days

Once contact has been made with Customer, Synopsys will consider
Licensed Product enhancements for inclusion in a subsequent Release.

(c) Customer Point of Contact. Customer will designate a specific
individual to be the primary point of contact for Maintenance Service
communications with Synopsys and will deliver contact information for
such individual to Synopsys’ support team.

1.2 On-Site Support. Customer may elect to purchase specific on-site
support packages, details of which can be found on Synopsys’ website:
https://www.synopsys.com/company/legal/softwareintegrity/onsite-support-
services-terms-v2015.1-1.html. The purpose of on-site support is to help
customers optimize deployment of the Licensed Product, including
installation, setup, configuration, and additional support offerings.

1.3 Exclusions to Maintenance Services. Maintenance Services do not
include the right to access new or bundled product offerings made
available by Synopsys, unless licenses for such offerings are separately
purchased. Synopsys will not have any obligation to provide Maintenance
Services for problems in the operation or performance of the Licensed
Product to the extent caused by any of the following: (a) modifications
to the Licensed Product made by a party other than Synopsys;

(b) Customer’s use of the Licensed Product other than as authorized by
the applicable agreement licensing the Licensed Product to Customer or
as provided in the Documentation; or (c) Customer’s use of releases
other than those releases of the Licensed Product covered by Maintenance
Services, (d) Customer’s failure to use any error corrections or updates
thereto provided by Synopsys to address such problem, or (e) use of
scripts or other deliverables provided to Customer under On-Site Support
services (as described in Section 1.2 above). If, in its sole
discretion, Synopsys determines that a problem in the operation or
performance of the Licensed Product is caused by the foregoing, then
Synopsys will notify Customer promptly and have no further Maintenance
Service obligations related to such problem. If Customer requests
services beyond standard Maintenance Services, Synopsys will have the
right to invoice Customer at Synopsys’ thencurrent published time and
materials rates for the provision of such services.

2. HOURS OF SERVICE AND CONTACT INFORMATION.

For Customers located in Europe:

Contact by:  At                                            During
-----------  --------------------------------------------  --------------------
Email        software-integritysupport@synopsys.com        9:00 – 17:00 UK time
Phone        +44 (0) 1276 400352                           9:00 – 17:00 UK time

For Japanese-language support:

Contact by:  At                                            During
-----------  --------------------------------------------  --------------------
Email        software-integrity-supportjapan@synopsys.com  9am – 5pm JST
Phone        +81-03-6746-3666                              9am – 5pm JST

For Korean-language support:

Contact by:  At                                            During
-----------  --------------------------------------------  --------------------
Email        software-integrity-supportkorea@synopsys.com  9am – 5pm KST
Phone        +82-2-3404-9332                               9am – 5pm KST

For Mandarin-language support:

Contact by:  At                                            During
-----------  --------------------------------------------  --------------------
Email        software-integrity-supportchina@synopsys.com  9am – 5pm CST
Phone        +86-4006-966-606                              9am – 5pm CST

For Customers located in India:

Contact by:  At                                            During
-----------  --------------------------------------------  --------------------
Email        software-integritysupport@synopsys.com        9:00 – 17:00 IST
Phone        +91-(0)80 6751 1888 or 1(800) 419-4311        9:00 – 17:00 IST

For all other Customers:

Contact by:  At                                            During
-----------  --------------------------------------------  --------------------
Email        software-integritysupport@synopsys.com        7am – 6pm Pacific Time
Phone        +1 800-873-7793 or +1 415.321.5239            7am – 6pm Pacific Time

All contact information is subject to change upon notice from Synopsys.
Closed on public holidays.

3. GENERAL. These terms and conditions contain the parties’ entire
agreement concerning Maintenance Services. Customer agrees that
additional or different terms on Customer’s purchase order shall not
apply. Any waiver, modification or amendment of these terms and
conditions will be effective only if in writing and signed by an
authorized representative of Customer and Synopsys.

END OF MAINTENANCE SERVICES TERMS ADDENDUM

ONSITE SUPPORT SERVICES TERMS ADDENDUM

1. SERVICES

1.1. Services. Customer has entered into an Agreement for a license to
the Licensed Product as set forth therein. In connection with Customer’s
use of the Licensed Product, Customer may contract to retain Synopsys to
provide Customer with the services set out in the applicable Addendum,
Purchasing Agreement, Customer Success Package and/or Statement of Work
to the Agreement (collectively the “Services”). The delivery of the
Services is expressly conditioned on Customer’s acceptance of the terms
and conditions of this Addendum.

1.2. Purchasing Agreements; Statements of Work. Customer will order
Services by executing one or more written Statements of Work or
Purchasing Agreements as applicable. Synopsys shall not be obligated to
deliver such Services until Customer and Synopsys enter into one or more
(a) written statements of work (each a “Statement of Work”) specifically
identifying the Services to be delivered by Synopsys in connection with
the applicable Purchasing Agreement, unless otherwise agreed to by the
parties in the applicable Addendum or (b) Purchasing Agreements
identifying the applicable Services to be performed. If applicable, a
Statement of Work shall identify the Services that Customer requests
Synopsys to provide, the duration of the Services, the fees payable by
Customer for the Services, and the payment structure. To be effective,
each Addendum, Purchasing Agreement and/or Statement of Work (as
applicable) must reference this Addendum, and be agreed to in writing by
an authorized representative of Synopsys and Customer, and once so
agreed upon will be incorporated herein by reference. If no Purchasing
Agreement or Statement of Work is executed in connection with the
performance of the Services, a Synopsys invoice referencing this
Addendum in response to Customer’s correct purchase order shall be
Synopsys’ acceptance of the services transaction. Additional or
different terms of Customer’s purchase order shall not apply.

1.3. Performance of Services. Synopsys will perform the Services using
such resources as Synopsys deems necessary in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this Addendum and of each applicable Purchasing
Agreement and Statement of Work. The Services shall be performed solely
in relation to the licenses to the Licensed Product granted by Synopsys
to Customer under the Agreement. All terms of the Agreement and
Purchasing Agreement that are not specifically amended herein will
remain in full effect. Nothing in this Agreement grants Customer any
rights to the Licensed Product other than as explicitly stated herein.
If Synopsys personnel are working on Customer’s premises:

(a) Customer will provide a safe and secure working environment for such
personnel; and

(b) Synopsys will comply with all reasonable workplace safety and
security standards and policies that are applicable to Customer’s
employees and of which Customer notifies Synopsys in writing and in
advance of the commencement of any Services.

1.4. Customer Responsibilities. Customer will provide Synopsys with
access to Customer’s sites and facilities during Customer’s normal
business hours as reasonably required by Synopsys to perform the
Services. Customer will also make available to Synopsys any data,
information and any other materials reasonably required by Synopsys to
perform the Services, including, but not limited to, any data,
information or materials specifically identified in the Statement of
Work (collectively, “Customer Materials”).

1.5. Relationship of the Parties. Synopsys is performing the Services as
an independent contractor, not as an employee, agent, joint venturer or
partner of Customer. Synopsys acknowledges and agrees that its personnel
are not eligible for or entitled to receive any compensation, benefits
or other incidents of employment that Customer makes available to its
employees. Accordingly, for a period of twelve (12) months following the
completion of the Services, Customer agrees not to directly or
indirectly solicit for employment any Synopsys employees or contractors,
provided that a job posting available to the general public shall not be
deemed such a solicitation.

2. FEES AND EXPENSES. As consideration for the Services, Customer will
pay Synopsys fees in accordance with the terms set forth in the
applicable Purchasing Agreement. Unless otherwise stated in the
applicable Purchasing Agreement, Customer Success Package or Statement
of Work, all Services are provided on a time and materials basis. In
addition, Customer will reimburse Synopsys for all reasonable and
customary travel, lodging and other related expenses incurred by
Synopsys or its personnel in connection with the performance of the
Services in accordance with the terms set forth in the applicable
Purchasing Agreement, Customer Success Package, or Statement of Work
upon being provided with receipts and other documentation for all such
expenses.

3. OWNERSHIP. Material and associated intellectual property rights
developed by a party prior to or outside of the scope of a Customer
Success Package or Statement of Work (“Pre-Existing Material”) shall be,
as between the parties, owned by the developing party. Synopsys shall
own all rights, title and interest in all scripts, methodologies,
processes, and documentation, and all intellectual property rights
therein, developed during the provision of the Services involving (i)
implementation or installation of Licensed Products into Customer’s
environment, (ii) configuration of workflow or reporting capabilities of
the Licensed Product, and (iii) optimization of the use of the Licensed
Product in Customer’s environment (collectively, the “Synopsys-Owned
Work Product”). Synopsys hereby grants to Customer, for the license term
applicable to the Licensed Product licensed to Customer under the
applicable Purchasing Agreement, a nonexclusive, worldwide, right to
use, reproduce and create derivative works of any PreExisting Material
owned by Synopsys and incorporated into deliverables of the Services,
and the Synopsys-Owned Work Product, for Customer’s internal business
purposes to aid in Customer’s use of Licensed Product licensed by it.

4. SERVICES WARRANTY. Synopsys warrants that, for a period of ninety
(90) days from the completion of the Services (the “Services Warranty
Period”) the Services will be performed in a professional and
workmanlike manner consistent with applicable industry standards. If
during the Services Warranty Period, Synopsys receives from Customer a
written notice of the Service’s nonconformance with the provisions set
forth in this Section 4, Synopsys will, as Customer’s sole and exclusive
remedy and Synopsys’ entire liability for any breach of the foregoing
warranty, at Synopsys’ sole option and expense, promptly re-perform the
non-conforming Services or refund to Customer the fees paid for the
non-conforming Services. THE FOREGOING STATES CUSTOMER’S SOLE AND
EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR WARRANTY CLAIMS RELATED TO THE SERVICES.

5. ENTIRE ADDENDUM. The parties acknowledge that they have had previous
discussions related to Synopsys’ performance of the Services for
Customer. This Addendum, together with any Statements of Work or
Customer Success Packages incorporated into the Agreement by reference
and the Agreement, constitutes the complete and exclusive understanding
and agreement between the parties on the subject matter and supersedes
all prior or contemporaneous agreements or understandings, written or
oral, relating to the Agreement, this Addendum, any Customer Success
Packages or any Statements of Work.

END OF ONSITE SUPPORT SERVICES ADDENDUM

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT KIT ADDENDUM

IMPORTANT INFORMATION – READ CAREFULLY UNLESS YOU HAVE OBTAINED
PERMISSION TO USE THE LICENSED PRODUCT UNDER A SEPARATE, DULY SIGNED
LICENSE AGREEMENT OR AN EVALUATION LICENSE WITH SYNOPSYS OR AN
AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR, THE ACCOMPANYING SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THE
FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND ANY SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS REFERENCED
BELOW AND YOUR RIGHT TO USE THE SOFTWARE IS CONDITIONED UPON YOUR
ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THESE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS AND YOU DO NOT HAVE A SEPARATE LICENSE AGREEMENT AS
REFERENCED ABOVE, YOU MAY NOT USE OR COPY THE SOFTWARE AND YOU MUST
DELETE ANY COPIES OF IT FROM YOUR SYSTEMS.

1. SCOPE AND KEY TERMS. This is an addendum (this “SDK Addendum”) to the
Agreement concerning Customer’s use of the Licensed Product described
below. The rights granted to the Licensed Product are expressly
conditioned upon acceptance of the additional terms and conditions
stated in this SDK Addendum by Customer. If an Authorized User of
Customer is using the Licensed Product, Customer is the licensee of the
Licensed Product. Customer may have already accepted a version of the
terms and conditions of this SDK Addendum by signing a Purchasing
Agreement referencing them. In all other circumstances, use by an
Authorized User binds such user and Customer to these Terms and
Conditions by using the Licensed Product. The Licensed Product is the
proprietary information of Synopsys or its suppliers who retain
exclusive title to their intellectual property rights in the Software.
Customer’s rights to the Licensed Product are limited to those expressly
granted below, and Synopsys reserves all rights not expressly granted in
this SDK Addendum.

2. Definitions. Capitalized terms in this Addendum have the meanings
given them in the Agreement and/or applicable Purchasing Agreement.
Whenever capitalized in this SDK Addendum:

2.1 “SDK Addendum” means this Synopsys SDK Addendum.

2.2 “Agreement” means the applicable Synopsys End User Software License
and Maintenance Agreement pursuant to which a license to the Licensed
Product was granted to Customer in accordance with the terms and
conditions therein. This SDK Addendum is hereby incorporated by
reference into the Agreement.

2.3 “Checker” means one or more bug checkers developed by Customer or
its Authorized Users in compliance with the Documentation for specific
use with the Licensed Product.

2.4 “Documentation” means, for purposes of this SDK Addendum, the
Documentation (as defined in the Agreement) that is specific to the
Licensed Product licensed pursuant to this SDK Addendum.

2.5 “SDK” or “Software Development Kit” means the Documentation and the
Licensed Product (source code and object code) provided or made
available by Synopsys for use by Customer in connection with Customer’s
use of the Licensed Product in accordance with the terms of the
Agreement.

2.6 “Licensed Product” means, for purposes of this SDK Addendum, the
Synopsys Analysis Integration Toolkit (including without limitation any
applications, sample code, simulator, tools, libraries, APIs, data,
files, and materials).

2.7 “Licensed Term” means the period described in the applicable
Purchasing Agreement for the Licensed Product.

3. SDK INTERNAL USE LICENSE AND RESTRICTIONS.

3.1 Permitted Uses and Restrictions. Subject to Customer’s compliance
with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and this SDK Addendum,
Synopsys hereby grants Customer during the Licensed Term, a limited,
nonexclusive, personal, revocable, non-sub-licensable and
nontransferable license to:

3.1.1 Install up to the licensed number of copies of the SDK on
computers owned or controlled by Customer, to be used internally by
Customer or Customer’s Authorized Users for the sole purpose of
developing or testing Checkers; and

3.1.2 Make and distribute a reasonable number of copies of the
Documentation to Authorized Users for Customer’s internal use only and
for the sole purpose of developing or testing Checkers. Customer
understands that Checkers developed using the SDK can only be installed
or used in conjunction with the Licensed Product. Synopsys shall not be
responsible for any costs, expenses or other liabilities Customer may
incur as a result of Customer’s Checker development or use of this SDK.

3.2 Copies. Customer agrees to retain and reproduce in full the Synopsys
copyright, disclaimers and other proprietary notices (as they appear in
the SDK and Documentation provided) in any Checker created by Customer
and/or its Authorized Users and in all copies of the SDK and
Documentation that Customer is permitted to make under this Addendum.

4. OWNERSHIP.

4.1 Synopsys retains all rights, title, and interest in and to the SDK
it may make available to Customer under this Addendum. Customer agrees
to cooperate with Synopsys to maintain Synopsys’ ownership of the SDK
(including all Synopsys SDK materials incorporated into the Checkers
that are created in connection therewith), and Customer agrees to
promptly provide notice of any claims relating to the SDK (and any SDK
materials incorporated into such Checkers).

4.2 Except with respect to the SDK materials that are permitted to be
incorporated into a Checker pursuant to the terms of this Addendum,
Customer shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to the
Checkers, subject to the use limitations stated herein.

4.3 Customer hereby grants to Synopsys, its subcontractors and
authorized distributors, without charge, the right to use, copy, modify
and create derivative works of any such Checkers solely for the purpose
of (i) improving the operation, functionality or use of Synopsys’
existing and future product offerings and commercializing such
offerings; and (ii) publishing aggregated statistics about software
quality, provided that no data in any such publication can be used to
specifically identify Customer or Customer’s Checkers or software code.

4.4 No Other Permitted Uses. Customer agrees not to rent, lease, lend,
upload to or host on any website or server, sell, redistribute, or
sublicense the SDK or any Checker, in whole or in part, or to enable
others to do so. Customer shall not use the SDK or any Checker for any
purpose not expressly permitted by this Addendum. Customer may not and
Customer agrees not to, or to enable others to, copy (except as
expressly permitted under this Addendum), decompile, reverse engineer,
disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, modify, decrypt, or
create derivative works of the SDK or any services provided by the SDK,
or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent any foregoing
restriction is prohibited by applicable law, or to the extent as may be
permitted by licensing terms governing use of open-sourced components or
sample code included with the SDK). Customer agrees not to exploit any
services provided by the SDK in any unauthorized way whatsoever. Any
attempt to do so is a violation of the rights of Synopsys and its
licensors of the SDK. If Customer breaches any of the foregoing
restrictions, Customer may be subject to prosecution and damages. All
licenses not expressly granted in this Agreement are reserved and no
other licenses, immunity or rights, express or implied are granted by
Synopsys, by implication, estoppel, or otherwise. This Addendum does not
grant Customer any rights to use any trademarks, logos or service marks
belonging to Synopsys.

4.5 Releases and Workarounds; No Support or Maintenance. Synopsys may
extend, enhance, or otherwise modify the SDK at any time without notice,
but Synopsys shall not be obligated to provide Customer with any
Releases or Workarounds to the SDK. If Releases or Workarounds are made
available by Synopsys, the terms of this Addendum will govern such
Releases and Workarounds. Synopsys is not obligated to provide any
Maintenance or other support for the SDK. Customer acknowledges that
Synopsys has no express or implied obligation to announce or make
available any Releases or Workarounds of the SDK to anyone in the
future. Should a Release or Workaround be made available, it may have
APIs, features, services or functionality that are different from those
found in the SDK licensed hereunder.

5. CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS.

5.1 Use of the SDK. As a condition to using the SDK, Customer agrees
that:

5.1.1 Customer will only use the SDK for the purposes and in the manner
expressly permitted by this Addendum and in accordance with all
applicable laws and regulations;

5.1.2 Customer will not use the SDK for any unlawful or illegal
activity, nor to develop any Checker which would commit or facilitate
the commission of a crime, or other tortious, unlawful, or illegal act;

5.1.3 To the best of Customer’s knowledge and belief, Customer Checkers
do not and will not violate, misappropriate, or infringe any copyright,
patent, trademark, trade secret, rights of privacy and publicity, or
other proprietary or legal right of any third party or of Synopsys.

5.2 Requirements for Checkers. Any Checker developed using this SDK must
comply with these criteria and requirements, as they may be modified by
Synopsys from time to time:

5.2.1 Checkers may only use SDK materials in the manner prescribed by
Synopsys and must not use or call any materials not published or
authorized by Synopsys.

5.2.2 A Checker may not itself install or launch other executable code
by any means, including without limitation through the use of a plug-in
architecture, calling other frameworks, other APIs or otherwise. No
interpreted code may be downloaded and used in a Checker except for code
that is interpreted and run by the Licensed Product.

5.2.3 Checkers must comply with the Documentation provided by Synopsys.

5.2.4 If Customer’s Checker includes any Open Source Licensed Product,
Customer agrees to comply with all applicable Open Source Licensed
Product licensing terms. Customer also agrees not to use any Open Source
Licensed Product in the development of Customer’s Checker in such a way
that would cause the non-Open Source Licensed Product portions of the
SDK to be subject to any Open Source Licensed Product licensing terms or
obligations, including, without limitation, any condition of use,
copying, modification or redistribution, which would require such
Checker or the Licensed Product and derivative works thereof to be
disclosed or distributed in source code form, to be licensed for the
purpose of making derivative works, or to be redistributed free of
charge (including without limitation as software distributed under the
GNU General Public License or GNU Lesser/Library GPL).

6. INDEMNIFICATION. Customer agrees to indemnify, defend and hold
harmless Synopsys (including without limitation its directors, officers,
employees, independent contractors and agents) from any and all claims,
losses, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs (including without
limitation attorney’s fees and court costs) (collectively “Losses“)
incurred by Synopsys as a result of Customer’s breach of this Addendum,
a breach of any certification, covenant, representation or warranty made
by Customer in this Addendum, any claims that Customer’s Checkers
violate or infringe any third party intellectual property or proprietary
rights, or otherwise related to or arising from Customer’s use of the
SDK, Customer’s Checker(s) or Customer’s development of Checkers,
including any Losses as a result of a claim for death, personal injury
or property damage. In no event may Customer enter into any settlement
or like agreement with a third party that affects Synopsys’srights or
binds Synopsys in any way, without the prior written consent of
Synopsys.

7. NO WARRANTIES. CUSTOMER EXPRESSLY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT USE OF
THE SDK IS AT CUSTOMER’S SOLE RISK AND THAT THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO
SATISFACTORY QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, ACCURACY AND EFFORT IS WITH CUSTOMER.
THE SDK IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITH ALL FAULTS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, AND SYNOPSYS AND SYNOPSYS’ LICENSORS HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL
WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE SDK, EITHER EXPRESS,
IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. SYNOPSYS DOES NOT WARRANT
AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTOMER’S ENJOYMENT OF THE SDK, THAT THE SDK
WILL MEET CUSTOMER’S REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SDK WILL BE
UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, THAT DEFECTS IN THE SDK WILL BE CORRECTED,
OR THAT THE SDK WILL BE COMPATIBLE WITH FUTURE SYNOPSYS PRODUCTS OR
SOFTWARE.

8. ENTIRE ADDENDUM. This Addendum constitutes the complete and exclusive
understanding and agreement between the parties on the subject matter
and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements or
understandings, written or oral, relating to this Addendum. Parties
specifically agree that Sections 1.5 (Documentation), 1.7 (Licensed
Product), 2 (License), 4 (Warranty) and 5 (Indemnity) of the Agreement
are not applicable to the SDK and that the SDK shall not be eligible for
maintenance services.

END OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT KIT ADDENDUM

SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS ADDENDUM

1. SEEKER; DEFENSICS. If Customer has purchased a license to the
Licensed Products known as either Seeker (“Seeker”) or Defensics
(“Defensics”), the following additional terms apply:

1.1. Seeker

1.1.1. Use in Test Environment Only. SEEKER IS AN AUTOMATED TESTING
SOLUTION DESIGNED TO BE USED IN NON-PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENTS ONLY. As
part of the processes completed by Seeker, Seeker will automatically
generate requests to the applicable Customer website, thus activating
various website and associated database operations. Such processes may
add to, modify, tamper with, and /or delete any persistent data
contained in such site or in such database. CUSTOMER IS HEREBY ADVISED
TO EXCLUDE ALL WEBSITES FOR WHICH CUSTOMER DOES NOT WANT SEEKER TO
PERFORM SUCH OPERATIONS. SUCH OPERATIONS MAY ALSO BE DISABLED FROM THE
SETTINGS-
>TEST/GENERAL SCREEN.
>
1.1.2. Purpose; Data Modification; Data Collection. Customer understands
that Seeker is software that conducts certain tests by (i) gathering
data and information from the environments, websites, software products,
databases, and servers in which it operates and potentially saving such
data and information in the database of Seeker, and (ii) potentially
changing, deleting, or otherwise altering such data and information.
Customer further understands that Seeker is designed to be used solely
as part of a development and test environments, which are not production
environments.

1.1.3. Use of Customer End User Information. Seeker uses sample end user
data (including names, passwords, addresses, account numbers, credit
card numbers and other data) that has been created for use in the
operations performed by Seeker (“Test/Form Data”). Customer end user
data used in Customer’s production website, database and server
environment may contain Personally Identifiable Information (as defined
under U.S. law), Personal Data (as defined under European Union law and
the implementing regulations of its member states) and other data
regulated by U.S. and international law (collectively, “Regulated
Data”). In the event that Customer provides Synopsys access to such
Regulated Data for purposes of the performance of Synopsys Maintenance
Services or otherwise, as between Synopsys and Customer, Synopsys shall
be deemed a data processor and Customer shall be deemed the data
controller with respect to such Regulated Data. CUSTOMER IS HEREBY
ADVISED TO USE THE SUPPLIED TEST/FORM DATA ONLY IN THE OPERATION OF
SEEKER. CUSTOMER IS HEREBY FURTHER ADVISED THAT THE USE OF REGULATED
DATA IN SEEKER OPERATIONS IS A VIOLATION OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF
THIS AGREEMENT. IN THE EVENT THAT CUSTOMER USES REGULATED DATA IN SEEKER
OPERATIONS, CUSTOMER SHALL HOLD SYNOPSYS HARMLESS FROM ANY LIABLITY
RESULTING FROM SUCH USE.

1.1.4. Credit Card Usage. As part of Seeker’s operations, Seeker will
automatically test credit card forms, creating credit card transactions
using such credit card forms using Test/Form Data. CUSTOMER SHALL BE
SOLELY RESONSIBLE TO ENSURE THAT ANY ALL TESTED ENVIRONMENTS,
APPLICATIONS, DATABASES, AND SERVERS CONTAIN TEST/FORM DATA ONLY.
CUSTOMER IS HEREBY ADVISED TO USE TEST CREDIT CARD FORMS ONLY, AND TO
DISCONNECT TESTED WEBSITES FROM PRODUCTION TRANSACTION SERVERS PRIOR TO
TESTING. SUCH OPERATIONS MAY ALSO BE DISABLED FROM THE
SETTINGS->TEST/GENERAL SCREEN. SYNOPSYS SHALL BEAR NO LIABILITY FOR AND
CUSTOMER SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR AND SHALL HOLD SYNOPSYS
HARMLESS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY CUSTOMER-INITIATED CREDIT CARD
TRANSACTIONS RESULTING FROM THE USE OF ANY DATA OTHER THAN TEST/FORM
DATA IN THE OPERATION OF SEEKER.

1.2. Defensics

1.2.1. Use in Test Environment Only. DEFENSICS IS AN automated TESTING
SOLUTION DESIGNED TO BE USED IN NON-PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENTS ONLY. As
part of the processes completed by Defensics, Defensics will
automatically test specific protocols of Customer software identified by
Customer. Such protocols may add to, modify, tamper with, and /or delete
portions of the software under test, and may disable software
functionality in production environments. CUSTOMER IS HEREBY ADVISED NOT
TO USE DEFENSICS IN ANY PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT.

2. DISCLAIMER. CUSTOMER IS NOT LICENSED TO USE SEEKER OR DEFENSICS IN
PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENTS; IN THE EVENT THAT CUSTOMER USES EITHER SEEKER
OR DEFENSICS IN PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENTS, SYNOPSYS SHALL BEAR NO
RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUCH USES AND CUSTOMER SHALL BEAR ALL LIABILITY FOR
SUCH USES AND SHALL HOLD SYNOPSYS HARMLESS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY
LIABILITY RESULTING FROM SUCH CUSTOMER USES.

END OF SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS ADDENDUM

HOSTING SERVICES ADDENDUM

1. DEFINITIONS.

1.1 “Hosted Software” means the software described in the applicable
Purchasing Agreement that Synopsys will provision hosting services for
on behalf of Customer under the terms of this Hosting Services Addendum.

1.2 “Hosting Services” means the services related to the Hosted Software
described in this Hosting Services Addendum.

2. Hosting Services Description. During the term set forth in the
applicable Purchasing Agreement, Synopsys shall provision Hosting
Services on behalf of Customer as follows: Synopsys will be responsible
for managing the set-up, configuration and hosting of the Hosted
Software including, but not limited to, managing the installation of all
revisions, new versions, and updates to the Hosted Software.

3. POST-TERMINATION HOSTING. Synopsys will permit Customer to access the
Hosted Software for a maximum of thirty (30) days post termination of
the Agreement or the applicable Purchasing Agreement, as applicable, for
the limited purpose of accessing and downloading any Customer data
retained therein.

4. HOSTING SERVICES PERFORMANCE WARRANTY.

4.1 Uptime. Synopsys will (a) have at least 99.5% uptime (“Service
Availability”), as measured monthly, excluding planned downtime and any
time necessary to implement updates, upgrades or modification to the
Hosted Software, and (b) not experience more than two (2) instances of
unscheduled downtime of more than one (1) hour each in any rolling
thirty (30) day period. Routine updates to the Hosted Software are
scheduled once per month on a Sunday, typically between the hours of 4
am and 8 am (Eastern US time zone).

4.2 Exclusions. This Service Availability warranty shall not apply in
the event of any interruption or failure of telecommunication or digital
transmission links outside of Synopsys’ network, Internet network
congestion outside of Synopsys’ network or other failures outside of
Synopsys’ network.

5. Limitation of Liability. EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS SERVICE AVAILABILITY
WARRANTY STATED IN SECTION 4, THIS HOSTING SERVICES ADDENDUM DOES NOT
CREATE ANY OTHER REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY RELATED TO THE AVAILABILITY,
ACCESSIBILITY, OR USEABILITY OF THE HOSTED SOFTWARE. THE REMEDIES STATED
IN THE AGREEMENT ARE CUSTOMER’S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR SYNOPSYS’
FAILURE TO MEET THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH HEREIN.

6. ENTIRE ADDENDUM. The parties acknowledge that they have had previous
discussions related to Synopsys’ performance of the Hosting Services for
Customer. This Addendum constitutes the complete and exclusive
understanding and agreement between the parties on the subject matter
and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements or
understandings, written or oral, relating to the Agreement or this
Addendum.

END OF HOSTING SERVICES ADDENDUM
